Old is Gold.

Anybody remember darkroom? the text editor that, in my opinion, was ahead of its time when it comes to focused writing. No toolbars, no ruler, no buttons, no distractions. Just me and the text. I use brown noise to help me focus when i need to deep focus. Combining these two feels like i'm travling through the void. It's nice.

Actually I use a lot of old programs and devices. I still use Winamp 2.95x, in my opinion the GOAT'd mp3 player, to play my music. I never bothered with streaming music services, even as far back as last.fm, Pandora, etc. Hell, I still use my Zune as my daily music driver. Literally, I (f)aux with it in my car for music. There's a beautiful simplicity in the classic plug-and-play. I never needed an internet connection, let alone a paid subscription to listen to music growing up so I ain't about to start now.

The latest iteration of how we consume media isn't necessarily the best version of it. For me, peak music listening experience was a rechargeable device i can load thousands of songs into and just...go. My homie back in the day had the Zen by Creative. That sucker could hold * 50,000 * songs, which is still kind of insane to me. The UI was trash though (that touch scroll column was hell to navigate).

Using my certified unc status, I can recall a time in high school when I would listen on CD players. The Sony Walkman was a status symbol. I have to admit, the fact it could still play Mudvayne's LD 50 while in my backpack was something I thought was hi-tech. Older CD players would skip if i so much as breathed on them.

Being a broke ass teen, getting batteries for it was hard and i remember I would burn through whatever ones we had in the house, irritating my parents because i would use the batteries from the TV remote if i couldn't find any. Man that takes me back. I remember I had this AIWA CD player that had a "rechargeable battery" feature that just BLEW me away. I was like "finally, no more battery scrounging!" and I asked my dad to buy me this 4-pack of Energizer rechargable batteries which I would rotate when one pair ran out. That feeling of "endless music listening" that I take for granted now seemed like such a divine blessing back then. Crazy to think back on all this.

I remember getting into ROMs and Emulation around middle school. My cousin and I lived in Alexandria, VA - next to one of the locations of Northern VA Community College. They had an open computer lab that we would walk to in the summer, and I would use it to download ROMs onto floppy disks. A whopping 1.44 MB of disk space! I was limited to which games I could download and play because of that...until i discovered the magic of file splitters. This wizardry allowed me to download ANY game ROM I wanted to, so I started carrying around a pack of floppy disks. I think I had a pack of 6 at first, freshly bought from Circut City in that little plastic container they came in. And now I was able to play all the NES, SNES, SEGA and Gameboy games to my hearts content. My cousin and I would switch off using the computer to play our respective games on ZSNES. I dont even remember how I hard about it.

There's so many other examples. Our Family's first computer was this HP Pavilion with a whopping 1GB of storage and 256MB of RAM. That's where I learned the magic of Shareware, and the Run command in Windows. I used DOS commands and learned about ping (which I would use to circumvent the webpage blockers on school computers. That's how I learned and memorized the structure to "http://www....." webpages.

There's a certain magic feeling that I had when I would use this technology. It's rareity and limited access made it feel special. The ubiquoty of technology today makes me yearn for that feeling sometimes. Being a dev is like re-living that magic feeling as an adult. It's that "aha!" moment that I felt as a kid using those computers, and apps, and tools. It's that utter joy I felt when I figured out how to play all those old games.

..But I think for all our advancements in ease of use, access to, and general availability of computers everywhere, there's a certain romanticism that I think has been lost. Same with music. The limitation of those technologies actaully fostered a deeper appreciation for the material in a way. Having to work for it made me appreciate it more.

If heaven does exist, I hope it lets me relive those feelings.